Cádiz is in style: it has just been included in The New York Times’
list of 52 Places to Go in 2019. The recognition comes on the back of
acknowledgment from TripAdvisor, which last year ranked Cádiz eighth
on its list of European Destinations On The Rise for 2018.
The journalist Andrew Ferren, who wrote about Cádiz for The New York
Times’ list, lives in Spain himself and is no stranger to the southern
province’s charms. “I am fascinated by its mix of atmospheres,” he
says. “You leap from places as sophisticated and cultured as Jerez de
la Frontera to wild landscapes that take your breath away, such as the
beach in Bolonia or Alcornocales Park. It’s like the Wild West of
southern of Spain.”
“Despite the fact that Cádiz was historically a major maritime link
between America and Europe, it’s not very well known to the US public
and it’s really worth a visit,” he adds. There are three main reasons
why The New York Times recommends a trip to Cádiz:
Culinary delights Aponiente restaurant in El Puerto de Santa
María.Aponiente restaurant in El Puerto de Santa María.Suggestions
include the new Western-style gastrobar Saja River, recently opened on
Santa Elena street, and Código de Barra in La Candelaria Square.
Ferren also suggests crossing the bay from the capital to Puerto de
Santa María, where Angel León has his three-starred Michelin
restaurant offering “a lyrical poem of seafood.” Just 40 km from here,
León has another restaurant within the Meliá Sancti Petri hotel called
Alevante, which has just been awarded its first Michelin star. For
something more casual, there is La Taberna del Chef del Mar, another
of the chef’s brands in El Puerto.
To these suggestions, EL VIAJERO adds several of its own, including
Restaurante Café Royalty, which opened opened in 1912, and the
bookshop café La Clandestina (José del Toro, 23), which serves
scrumptious breakfasts. There is also La Candela (Feduchy, 13) for
tapas, while an exquisite combo of Andalusian and Norwegian fare is
served at Patría restaurant, located on the hillside of Muela in Vejer
de la Frontera.
Jerez de la Frontera and its wineries Bodegas Lustau, en Jerez de la
Frontera (Cádiz).ampliar fotoBodegas Lustau, en Jerez de la Frontera
(Cádiz). NEIL FARRIN GETTY IMAGESAround 36 km to the north of Cádiz
lies Jerez de la Frontera, known for the fortified wines known in
English as sherry. Wineries from the region known as Marco de Jerez
(comprising Jerez proper, El Puerto and Sanlúcar) preserve their
unique 18th and 19th-century atmosphere. Ferren recommends
Díez-Mérito, Lustau and Bodegas Tradición. Foodies are told to seek
out Lú in Jerez, owned by the chef JuanLu Fernández
The NMAC Montenmedio Foundation Vejer de la Frontera.ampliar fotoVejer
de la Frontera. GETTY IMAGESThe NMAC Montenmedio Foundation of
contemporary art sits between Barbate and Vejer de la Frontera. It is
a private gallery exhibiting works by artists who are asked to come up
with projects inspired by the local history and landscape. The center
has work by Olafur Eliasson, James Turrell, Marina Abramovic, Pascale
Marthine Tayou, Maurizio Cattelan and Santiago Sierra.
EL VIAJERO expands on Ferren’s recommendations with a few of its own:
1.The Cádiz Carnival The Cádiz carnival.ampliar fotoThe Cádiz
carnival.An unique and fun festival that takes place from February 28
to March 10. In fact it is so unique that it is applying to be
included on the World Intangible Cultural Heritage list.
2. Barrio del Pópulo The Pópulo neighborhood.ampliar fotoThe Pópulo
neighborhood. RAQUEL M. CARBONELL GETTYThis is the oldest neighborhood
in Cádiz and features an old Roman theater, the old cathedral and
stone arches that lead to bohemian bars such as Pay Pay (Silencio, 1),
a former brothel that now has live music, dance, improv and stand-up
comedy.
3. Cádiz à la Havana Cathedral square in Cádiz.ampliar fotoCathedral
square in Cádiz. RAQUEL M. CARBONELL GETTYStroll from the
colonial-style Mina Square, with its ficus and palm trees, to the
Provincial Museum containing Phoenician sarcophagi, to Campo del Sur
avenue which was converted into a Havana esplanade for the 2002 James
Bond movie Die Another Day.
4. A wealth of history Baelo Claudia Roman site in Tarifa
(Cádiz).ampliar fotoBaelo Claudia Roman site in Tarifa (Cádiz). KEN
WELSH GETTYStanding on the frontier between two continents, the
province of Cádiz has a long and action-packed history, while its
capital is one of the oldest cities in Europe. Remnants of yesteryear
can be seen at a number of archeological sites, including Baelo
Claudia, Carteia and Doña Blanca.
5. Sanlúcar de Barrameda Summer beach horse races in Sanlúcar de
Barrameda.ampliar fotoSummer beach horse races in Sanlúcar de
Barrameda. JUAN CARLOS TOROFamous for its summer horse racing on the
beach as well as for its wineries, this coastal town has been
described by journalist Mariló García as a “dazzling city in Cádiz
that boasts history, exquisite seafood, a city center with a mix of
palaces and wineries as well as the incomparable landscape of Doñana
Natural Park.”
6. Coast and mountains Olvera, a white village in Cádiz.ampliar
fotoOlvera, a white village in Cádiz. RUDI SEBASTIAN GETTYCádiz has
miles of windswept beaches that make it a perfect haunt for surfers of
various descriptions. In less than an hour, however, you can be in the
hills visiting quintessentially Andalusian white villages such as
Medina Sidonia, Grazalema and Ubrique.
7. The flamenco routeLocated in San Fernando, the Peña Flamenca
Camarón de la Isla, named after the famous singer, has shows every
week and is a good place to tune into some authentic flamenco
artistry.
8. Conil de la Frontera The beach in Conil de la Frontera.ampliar
fotoThe beach in Conil de la Frontera. GETTY IMAGESThere are three
national parks that stretch along Cádiz’s Atlantic coast – La Breña,
Los Alcornocales and el Estrecho – as well as beaches such as Conil de
la Frontera which has the best beach bars around for watching the sun
go down.
9. Surfing in TarifaIn the inlets of Los Lances and Valdevaqueros in
Tarifa, wind and kitesurfers can skid across the water with a view of
Africa in front and El Estrecho national park behind them.
10. The white villagesNineteen districts in the Cádiz mountains take
you through a string of white villages – Alcalá del Valle, Algar,
Algodonales, Arcos de la Frontera, Benaocaz, Bornos, El Bosque,
Espera, El Gastor, Grazalema, Olvera, Prado del Rey, Puerto Serrano,
Setenil de las Bodegas, Torre Alhaquine, Ubrique, Villaluenga del
Rosario, Villamartín and Zahara de la Sierra. The villagers still
whitewash their homes with lime as they did in the past, normally once
a year before the local fiestas.
